.TH PLATES 1 "June 2026" "PLATES 0.8.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
plates \- local render-only command-template framework
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plates
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B PLATES
is a local command-template rendering framework. It loads reusable YAML
templates called plates, resolves variables from pantry values, workspace
values, secrets, environment variables, and ingredient defaults, then prints
rendered command text for manual review.
.PP
PLATES does not execute rendered commands.
.SH CONCEPTS
.TP
.B Plate
A reusable YAML command template.
.TP
.B Rack
The collection of plates under
.IR data/rack/ .
.TP
.B Pantry
Global variables stored in
.IR data/pantry/globals.yaml .
.TP
.B Workspace
Project-specific variables stored in
.IR data/workspaces/<name>.yaml .
.TP
.B Ingredients
Variables required or optionally used by a plate.
.TP
.B Stamp
Render the selected plate.
.TP
.B Forge
Interactive plate creation mode.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Core Shell
.TP
.B help
Show available commands.
.TP
.B guide
List built-in guide topics.
.TP
.B guide plates|forge|variables|rack|examples|safety
Show a built-in guide topic.
.TP
.B version
Show the PLATES version.
.TP
.B about
Show a short description of PLATES.
.TP
.B exit
.TQ
.B quit
Exit the interactive shell.
.SS Initialization And Config
.TP
.B init
Create the local data directories.
.TP
.B config show
Show configuration.
.TP
.B config set banner true|false
Enable or disable the startup banner.
.TP
.B config set theme default|minimal
Set the theme name.
.TP
.B config set prompt_style full|compact
Set prompt verbosity.
.TP
.B config set tips true|false
Enable or disable tips.
.TP
.B config set store_secret_outputs true|false
Control whether raw secret-bearing output may be stored in history.
.SS Variables
.TP
.B workspace <name>
Switch to or create a workspace.
.TP
.B set <key> <value>
Set a variable in the active workspace.
.TP
.B setg <key> <value>
Set a global pantry variable.
.TP
.B show workspace
Show active workspace variables.
.TP
.B show pantry
Show global pantry variables.
.SS Secrets
.TP
.B secret set <key> <value>
Store a local secret.
.TP
.B secret get <key>
Show a masked secret value.
.TP
.B secret reveal <key>
Show the raw secret value.
.TP
.B secret list
List stored secrets with masked values.
.TP
.B secret delete <key>
Delete one secret.
.TP
.B secret clear --force
Delete all secrets.
.SS Rack Browsing
.TP
.B list plates
List available plates grouped by category.
.TP
.B search plates <query>
Search names, categories, descriptions, tags, and ingredients.
.TP
.B show rack
Show rack summary.
.TP
.B show tags
Show tag counts.
.TP
.B show category <name>
Show plates in a category.
.TP
.B random plate
Display a random plate.
.TP
.B random plate --use
Load a random plate.
.SS Plate Use
.TP
.B use <plate>
Load a plate by name or category/name.
.TP
.B show plate
Show loaded plate metadata, health, and template preview.
.TP
.B show ingredients
Show required and optional variables for the loaded plate.
.TP
.B stamp
.TQ
.B render
Render the loaded plate and store an output history record.
.TP
.B clear plate
Unload the current plate.
.SS Output Management
.TP
.B copy
Copy the most recent rendered output to the system clipboard.
.TP
.B save output [filename]
Save the most recent rendered output to
.IR data/output/rendered/ .
.TP
.B output history
Show render history.
.TP
.B output show <id> [--reveal]
Show a stored render. Secret-bearing output is redacted unless raw storage was enabled and
.B --reveal
is used.
.TP
.B output repeat <id>
Print stored output without metadata.
.TP
.B output delete <id>
Delete one render record.
.TP
.B output clear
Clear render history after confirmation.
.TP
.B output stats
Show render history statistics.
.TP
.B export markdown|json|yaml
Export the most recent render.
.SS Linting And Health
.TP
.B lint plate
Lint the currently loaded plate.
.TP
.B lint <plate>
Lint a specific plate without loading it.
.TP
.B lint rack
Lint every plate in the rack.
.TP
.B health
Show rack health summary.
.TP
.B explain lint
Explain common lint findings.
.SS Forge Mode
.TP
.B forge
.TQ
.B use forge
Enter Forge Mode.
.PP
Forge commands include:
.BR "set name" ,
.BR "set category" ,
.BR "set description" ,
.BR add_line ,
.BR insert_line ,
.BR delete_line ,
.BR clear_lines ,
.BR add_var ,
.BR add_secret_var ,
.BR add_optional_var ,
.BR set_var_required ,
.BR set_var_default ,
.BR rm_var ,
.BR add_tag ,
.BR rm_tag ,
.BR "show draft" ,
.BR validate ,
.BR "save [--force]" ,
and
.BR cancel .
.SS Plate Packs
.TP
.B pack list
List exported and imported packs.
.TP
.B pack export <name>
Export the whole rack as a zip pack.
.TP
.B pack export <name> --category <category>
Export one category.
.TP
.B pack export <name> --tag <tag>
Export plates matching a tag.
.TP
.B pack export <name> --plate <category/name>
Export one plate.
.TP
.B pack inspect <path>
Inspect a pack without importing.
.TP
.B pack validate <path>
Validate pack structure and plate lint status.
.TP
.B pack import <path> [--force]
Import a pack into the rack. Existing plates are not overwritten unless
.B --force
is provided.
.SH TEMPLATE SYNTAX
Simple variables use Go template function-style names:
.PP
.EX
{{target}}
{{workdir}}
{{rate}}
.EE
.PP
Secrets and environment variables use explicit helpers:
.PP
.EX
{{secret "password"}}
{{env "HOME"}}
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I data/config.yaml
User configuration.
.TP
.I data/rack/
Plate rack.
.TP
.I data/pantry/globals.yaml
Global pantry variables.
.TP
.I data/workspaces/
Workspace variable files.
.TP
.I data/secrets/secrets.yaml
Local plaintext secret store.
.TP
.I data/output/history.json
Render history.
.TP
.I data/packs/
Exported and imported plate packs.
.SH SECURITY
PLATES is render-only and never executes commands, templates, Forge drafts, or plate packs.
.PP
The Phase 10 secret store is local plaintext. It is separated from pantry and workspace files and ignored by git by default, but it is not encrypted.
.PP
Render history stores redacted output for secret-bearing renders unless
.B store_secret_outputs
is explicitly enabled.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
plates
init
workspace devhub
set target 10.129.202.242
set workdir C:\eUsers\eknjoh\ecode\eboxes\edevhub
use scanning/nmap_full_tcp
show ingredients
stamp
.EE
.PP
.EX
secret set password SuperSecret123
use examples/secret_demo
stamp
output show 1
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sh (1),
.BR git (1)
